Add documentation and setup instructions for ista EcoTrend statistics (#34342)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/ista_ecotrend.markdown

- **Water costs**: estimated costs in EUR

Not all values may be available in your ista EcoTrend account. Cost estimation is an optional service that has to be booked by your property manager. Therefore, the cost sensors are deactivated by default.

## Long-term statistics

The **ista EcoTrend** integration allows you to import all your historical consumption readings from your ista EcoTrend account into long-term statistic entities. These entities can be displayed in your Home Assistant energy dashboard, providing a comprehensive view of your consumption data over time.

### Identifying ista EcoTrend statistic entities

> The statistic entities imported via this integration have a `ista_ecotrend:` prefix. This prefix helps you identify these entities separately from other sensor statistics when setting up the long-term statistics in the energy dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The statistic entities imported via this integration have a `ista_ecotrend:` prefix. This prefix helps you identify and distinguish these entities from other sensor statistics when setting up the long-term statistics in the energy dashboard.
```

> The statistic entities imported via this integration are distinguishable by their prefix `ista_ecotrend:`. This prefix helps you identify these entities separately from other sensor statistics when setting up the long-term statistics in the energy dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The statistic entities imported via this integration have a `ista_ecotrend:` prefix. This prefix helps you identify these entities separately from other sensor statistics when setting up the long-term statistics in the energy dashboard.
```

### Setting up long-term statistics in the energy dashboard

To set up the **ista EcoTrend** long-term statistics in your Home Assistant energy dashboard, follow these steps:

> - **Access the energy configuration panel**

Reviewer: the reason you didn't use numbered steps is that they are not really sequential, but different options?

>   - Navigate to the [energy configuration panel](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/config_energy/) of your Home Assistant instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Go to the [energy configuration panel](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/config_energy/) of your Home Assistant instance.
```

    [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your energy configuration panel.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/config_energy.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/config_energy/)

- **Add heating energy usage**
  - Go to **Gas consumption**.

>   - Click on **Add gas source**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Select **Add gas source**.
```
we use [select instead of click](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/click)

  - Choose your **Heating energy** entity (for example, `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_heating_energy`).

>   - For cost tracking, click the radio button labeled **Use an entity tracking the total costs**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For cost tracking, select the **Use an entity tracking the total costs** option.
```

  - Select the corresponding **Heating costs** entity (for example, `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_heating_cost`).
- **Add hot water energy usage**

>   - Repeat the above steps for your **Hot water energy** and **Hot water costs** entities to track hot water energy usage and costs (for example, `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_hot_water_energy` and `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_hot_water_cost`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To track hot water energy usage and costs (for example, `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_hot_water_energy` and `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_hot_water_cost`), repeat the above steps for your **Hot water energy** and **Hot water costs** entities.
```

- **Add hot water consumption**
  - Go to **Water consumption**.

>   - Click on **Add water source**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Select **Add water source**.
```

  - Choose the **Hot water** entity (for example, `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_hot_water`).

>   - For cost tracking, click the radio button labeled **Use an entity tracking the total costs**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For cost tracking, select the **Use an entity tracking the total costs** option.
```

  - Select the corresponding **Hot water costs** entity (for example, `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_hot_water_cost`).
- **Add water consumption**

>   - Repeat the above steps for your **Water** and **Water costs** entities to track cold water consumption and costs (for example, `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_water` and `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_water_cost`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To track cold water consumption and costs (for example, `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_water` and `ista_ecotrend:luxemburger_str_1_water_cost`), repeat the above steps for your **Water** and **Water costs** entities.
```
